Hello, and welcome to the Linux Lemming.
So this is Episode 00, not really going in line with the view of what this whole project
will be, but I need to get something out there to start, and I'm learning along the way.
So this is Episode 00, I'm Rasta Calavera, I'm a long-time desktop Linux user, and I'm
fairly new to the server realm.
I have a very small self-hosted setup, I don't think it's correct to call it a home
lab because it's really just a bunch of raspberry pies running Docker containers and things
like that, so my experimentation is pretty basic.
I would describe myself as a hobbyist who knows enough to start projects, but doesn't
have enough free time to maintain them or spend hours troubleshooting them.
Now don't get me wrong, if something happens, I'm going to try my best, but I just don't
have a time investment that others may have.
So this gets me to the idea of a lemming.
So I consider myself a lemming, and when I use that word, I'm defining it as someone
who appreciates, like, concise, up-to-date documentation and really just wants to see
more of it widely available.
And we'll get into that in Episode 1 a bit more.
I'm also an Advid podcast listener, I consume a lot of podcasts from all across the spectrum,
some of the technology ones, I really enjoy everything that comes out of Jupiter Broadcasting,
Destination Linux, Joe Resington over in the UK there, and doing Late Night Linux, and
also the Ubuntu podcast over in the UK.
Those are all great, great ones, and if you haven't heard of them, I highly, highly suggest
that you look them up.
So what's this project going to be like?
Well, I think this is going to be mainly a place for people to listen or read my journey
as I kind of go through this, and they can do that either by listening to the podcast
or reading along with blogs.
I'm going to pick projects and just blindly follow the documentation, and I'm going to
report back on any successes and roadblocks that are along the way.
You know, as things happen, I will try to submit upstream changes to projects for their
documentation if such a thing is available on GitHub or GitLab, and also I will submit
tutorials if it's appropriate to the project or just in general.
And that gets me to this next point.
This whole thing, this is not a dedicated information hub for how-to's.
You know, so many already exist that I would rather contribute back to those than reinvent
the wheel.
So I would consider this mainly like a staging area for documentation that will be pushed
out to those bigger areas.
And just a little example of that, based on the podcast I listen to, things like front
page Linux from Destination Linux or wiki.linuxdelta.com, which is run by Noah Chalaya.
And also on the JB side, there is a self-hosted.wiki that needs a lot of love.
So I feel like, you know, I would try to hit all of them if it's really relevant.
So can you contribute to this?
Yes, please, please, please, please contribute to this.
I kind of think of this as an open podcast.
So I listen to a lot of podcasts, but I can't really participate in the active ongoing discussion.
I would kind of classify myself as more of a lurker in the community.
I'm just really busy with my home life and work life that I consume everything at my
convenience.
So I can't hop in mumble, I can't do jitsies or matrix or anything like that.
I just listen to the podcast feed.
And you know, I've really always wanted to get into podcasting and there was really
no easy barrier to entry.
So if there's other listeners out there who want to try podcasting, I want to make this
a place where they can cut their teeth and you know, we'll take submissions and put them
in.
So if you want to try your hand at podcasting, I really recommend you do it here.
If you want to submit your experience with projects, any documentation that you've already
made, again, we can get the wheels moving here and then push it to those other locations.
And for those contributions, I want to try to keep everything within GitLab.
That's where this repository is going to live and that will allow process tracking and things
like that.
So that's going to be my primary goal for contributions is to try to keep it within GitLab.
So is there a schedule for this?
No, not really.
I can only record audio at night or on days when I'm alone because I have a really loud
ambient noise in my living space.
So I am pretty limited on when I can actually do things.
I'm really going to try for one new edition per week or maybe a bi-weekly schedule if
time allows.
And if community involvement picks up, well, then we'll release more frequently.
So it's kind of, you know, at our discretion currently not on iTunes or Pocketcast or Spotify
or Stitcher or anything like that.
I don't really plan on pushing to those locations unless I have time or the community involvement
really kind of takes off or picks up because right now I'm just one guy sitting in a basement
talking into the void.
So I don't really see the point to push it out to those locations.
So again, like I said, I don't really consider this an official submission based on the ideals
of the project.
This is more of an obligatory episode.
That's why I'm using the Episode 00 tag for all of this.
I haven't quite settled on a topic yet for Episode 1.
I'm thinking maybe it'll be about how to use get since I've already created a lot of documentation
for that on the destination Linux side.
And since that's how I want contributions to come in, probably would make sense to cover
that first.
So this will bring us to the end of Episode 00.
And if you're here in this and you want to contribute, then please head on over to thelinuxlemming.com.
